so today we're going to be building a
vacuum cannon that will shoot a
ping-pong ball at 300 miles an hour
using nothing a vacuum now finally using
my new vacuum pump the only thing we
really have to do is we have to drill a
hole into the PVC pipe so I can put this
fitting on there so I can connect this
fitting via my vinyl tubing to my vacuum
pump now how this starts your going to
work is I'll take some tape or some
plastic something put it over the end
something that is barely strong enough
to hold a vacuum I'll put this over just
to make sure it stays on there snugly
now put another one on the other end so
now this will be a sealed container I'll
put the ping-pong wheel inside here
about right here so then whenever I pump
the air out of it with the ping-pong
ball inside the thin material put over
here like tape or plastic or aluminum
foil
well bow in it'll have a lot of pressure
pushing against it same with the other
side I'll take like a needle or
something or produce a nail and pump
that aluminum foil or plastic and now
you have 14 psi of pressure pushing
through the two because there's no air
inside there that atmospheric pressure
push it quickly accelerates this
ping-pong ball down the tube and there's
no air in front of it to stop it so it
just keeps accelerating it keeps going
down until it breaks
Andrew bursts through the other end
because this is very fragile too and it
just keeps going at 300 miles an hour or
faster so I say it's this is gonna be
Roy's simple build hopefully let's get
going
I'm pretty happy with that that turned
out pretty nice and I screwed that down
pretty far so to act as a stopper for
the ping pong ball that way I can put
the ping pong ball in the very end I can
turn on the vacuum pump the ping pong
ball will be sucked back here and it
will stop right in front of here now I
just need to hook it all up
once you're like five minutes to make
this whole thing
so first off I'll try some aluminum foil
over the ends
well load the ping-pong ball inside
there by putting it here
now let's try two layers of Elementium
foil that will help to make you stronger
so I decided for this run that I'll be
putting one layer in the back that way
that will always break before the front
one because it put two layers in the
front one that way the front will be
stronger so the back one will break
pushing in the right direction otherwise
I've had several instances where it'll
go the wrong way because the front a
little break before the back one and
then it just eats up the ping-pong ball
in the back it's occurred to me that I
don't have to have the exact same
material on both ends because I know a
limonium oil does break but something
like duct tape available stronger well
if I put something that's stronger in
the front and weaker in the back the
back one will break before the front
that's how I wanted to do so I won't
have to worry about the front one
accidentally breaking before the back in
shooting the ping pong ball out the back
which ruins it so I'm going to try it
with aluminium in the back which I know
will break under a vacuum and I'll try
other materials like paper or duct tape
and see if they don't break under a
vacuum and see if they're stronger
so the a limonium file is not working I
decided to use packing tape we'll see if
that works little better this is the
kind of amusing seal of last let's give
it a go
for this test my stepsister wants to
poke it turn on the vacuum pump
I'll tell you I'll tell you when to go
anytime now go I'm so happy with this
plaque packing tape worked wonderfully
with this packing tape what I can do is
I can let it get a full vacuum and then
I can pop it whenever I want it to and I
can pop which side I want it to also so
I know it will fire in that direction
let's do some high-speed shots with this
I have this board with these lines of
duct tape incremented with one foot and
we'll see how fast the ball is actually
going
so in conclusion I'm extremely happy
about this new vacuum cannon that I made
it's worked wonderfully and was very
cheap to only cost about $10 in parts
not counting the $80 3 CFM vacuum pump
that I got from ebay but nothing that is
awesome
now as for the mediums that I used for
the diaphragm I found that aluminium
foil was okay but it was actually pretty
mediocre so faint I I believe it's made
of sulfate packing tape was wonderful it
could hold the vacuum so he so you could
just turn it on get a full vacuum and
then pop it whenever you wanted that
also lets you have the full power of the
of the cannon and I could not believe
that that it would shoot the ping-pong
ball that fast it'd be amazing if I
could figure out a way to replace the
silicone tape because the thing is it
takes a while to to read to reload the
gun be awesome if I could find a big
electronic valve that would just open
really fast but I doubt I could find
something that open that fast but on the
backside where it only has to have air
go through I could find something that
would open fast enough but it still
might hinder the functionality of it
well I hope you guys make some and I'd
like to see what you guys make thanks
for watching
see you
you